content/developer/howtos/rdtraining/02_setup.rst, before:

.. _howto/rdtraining/02_setup:

=========================================
Chapter 2: Development Environment Set-up
=========================================

There are multiple ways to install Odoo depending on the intended use case.

This document attempts to describe the installation options for an internal Odoo R&D developer. We
assume that you are installing your development environment on a standard Odoo laptop with Linux
Mint installed and up-to-date. At the time of writing, we are using a vanilla Linux Mint 20
(Ubuntu 20.04) as a starting point.


If you are using another environment, you can refer to :ref:`setup/install/source`.


Fetch the sources & configure git
=================================

Install and configure git
-------------------------

The very first step of the installation process is to install the `git version control system <https://git-scm.com/>`__
because the Odoo source code is managed on GitHub. Once installed, you can set your name and email:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install git
    $ git config --global user.name "Your full name"
    $ git config --global user.email "xyz@odoo.com"

Configure GitHub
----------------

To fetch the sources and contribute to Odoo's development you will need a GitHub account. We
recommend using your trigram (xyz) followed by '-odoo' as your username: 'xyz-odoo'. If you prefer,
you can also use your personal GitHub account.


The easiest way to authenticate with GitHub is to use an SSH connection. Using the SSH
authentication will allow you to connect to GitHub without supplying your username and
password every time.


The following instructions are based on the official `GitHub documentation <https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh>`__.


Here is a step-by-step procedure:


- Generate a new SSH key, add it to the ssh-agent and copy the SSH key to your clipboard.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "xyz@odoo.com"
    $ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
    $ sudo apt-get install xclip
    $ xclip -sel clip < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub


In Github:


- In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click Settings

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/userbar-account-settings.png

- In the user settings sidebar, click SSH and GPG keys.

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/settings-sidebar-ssh-keys.png

- Click New SSH key or Add SSH key.

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/ssh-add-ssh-key.png

- In the "Title" field, add a descriptive label for the new key.
- Paste your key into the "Key" field.

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/ssh-key-paste.png

- Click Add SSH key.


Fetch the sources
-----------------

All the Odoo sources will be located in `$HOME/src/`

.. code-block:: console

    $ mkdir -p $HOME/src
    $ cd $HOME/src
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/odoo.git
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/enterprise.git

.. tip:: Cloning the repositories will take a while, enjoy a cup of coffee while you wait.

.. tip:: You may need to ask your manager for read rights to fetch the enterprise repository.

.. _howto/rdtraining/02_setup/development_repository:

Configure development repository
--------------------------------

To contribute to Odoo's development you will need to
`fork the repository <https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/>`__, create a branch containing
your code in the fork and submit a
`Pull Request <https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/github-glossary#pull-request>`__
to the Odoo repository.

If you are lucky enough to work at Odoo, the forks already exist. They are called
`odoo-dev/odoo` and `odoo-dev/enterprise`.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd  $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git remote add odoo-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/odoo.git #add odoo-dev as a new remote
    $ git remote rename origin odoo #change the name of origin (the odoo repository) to odoo
    $ git remote set-url --push odoo no_push #remove the possibility to push to odoo (you can only push to odoo-dev)

    $ cd  $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git remote add enterprise-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/enterprise.git
    $ git remote rename origin enterprise
    $ git remote set-url --push enterprise no_push


Useful git commands
-------------------

Here are some useful git commands for your day-to-day work.

* Change branch:
  When you change branches, both repositories (odoo and enterprise) must be synchronized, i.e. both
  need to be in the same branch.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git checkout 14.0

    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git checkout 14.0

* Fetch and rebase:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git fetch --all --prune
    $ git rebase --autostash odoo/14.0

    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git fetch --all --prune
    $ git rebase --autostash enterprise/14.0


Install the dependencies
========================

Python
------

Odoo requires Python 3.7 or later, if your computer is up-to-date you should already be at this
version or higher.

You can check your Python version with:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python3 --version

Install pip3 and libraries
--------------------------

For libraries using native code, installation of development tools and native dependencies is
required before installing the Python dependencies of Odoo.

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install python3-pip python3-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libldap2-dev libsasl2-dev libssl-dev libpq-dev libjpeg-dev


Install odoo requirements
-------------------------

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

.. _howto/rdtraining/02_setup/install-wkhtmltopdf:

Install wkhtmltopdf
-------------------

wkhtmltopdf is a library to render HTML into PDF. Odoo uses it to create PDF reports. wkhtmltopdf
is not installed through pip and must be installed manually in version 0.12.5 to support
headers and footers.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd /tmp/
    $ sudo wget https://github.com/wkhtmltopdf/wkhtmltopdf/releases/download/0.12.5/wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.focal_amd64.deb
    $ sudo gdebi --n wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.focal_amd64.deb
    $ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltopdf /usr/bin
    $ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltoimage /usr/bin

Right-to-left interface support
-------------------------------

In order to support right-to-left (RTL) languages, we need `rtlcss` to convert the CSS files:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs npm
    $ sudo npm install -g rtlcss

Install PostgreSQL
------------------

As seen in :ref:`howto/rdtraining/01_architecture`, Odoo uses PostgreSQL as a RDBMS. In the context of a
development machine, the easiest approach is to install it locally. Then we can create a PostgreSQL user
corresponding to our current user:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install postgresql postgresql-client
    $ sudo -u postgres createuser -s $USER


Some useful SQL commands:

.. code-block:: console

    $ createdb $DB_NAME #Create a database
    $ dropdb $DB_NAME #Drop a database

    $ psql $DB_NAME #Connect to a database
        \l #List all the available databases
        \dt #List all the tables of the $DB_NAME database
        \d $TABLE_NAME #Show the structure of the table $TABLE_NAME
        \q #Quit the psql environment (ctrl + d)

Run the server
==============

Running odoo-bin
----------------

Once all dependencies are set up, Odoo can be launched by running odoo-bin, the command-line interface of the server.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo/
    $ ./odoo-bin --addons-path="addons/,../enterprise/" -d rd-demo

There are multiple :ref:`command-line arguments <reference/cmdline/server>` that you can use to
configure the server. In this training you will only need some of them.

.. option:: -d <database>

    The database that is going to be used.

.. option:: --addons-path <directories>

    A comma-separated list of directories in which modules are stored. These directories are scanned
    for modules.

.. option:: --limit-time-cpu <limit>

    Prevents the worker from using more than <limit> CPU seconds for each request.

.. option:: --limit-time-real <limit>

    Prevents the worker from taking longer than <limit> seconds to process a request.

The last two can be used to prevent the worker from being killed when debugging the source code.

.. tip:: You may face an error similar to `AttributeError: module '$MODULE_NAME' has no attribute '$ATTRIBUTE'`

         In this case you may need to re-install the module with `$ pip install --upgrade --force-reinstall $MODULE_NAME`

         If this error occurs with more than one module then you may need to re-install all the
         requirements with `$ pip3 install --upgrade --force-reinstall -r requirements.txt`

         You can also clear the python cache to solve the issue

         .. code-block:: console

            $ cd $HOME/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/
            $ find -name '*.pyc' -type f -delete


Log in to Odoo
--------------

Open `http://localhost:8069/` on your browser. We recommend you use:
`Firefox <https://www.mozilla.org/fr/firefox/new/>`__,
`Chrome <https://www.google.com/intl/fr/chrome/>`__
(`Chromium <https://www.chromium.org/Home>`__ the open source equivalent) or any other browser with
development tools.

To log in as the administrator user, you can use the following credentials:

* email = `admin`
* password = `admin`

The developer mode
==================

The Developer or Debug Mode gives you access to additional (advanced) tools.

This is useful for training and we assume that the user is in developer mode for the rest of the tutorials.

To activate the developer or debug mode you can follow the steps `here <https://www.odoo.com/documentation/user/general/developer_mode/activate.html>`__.

Extra tools
===========

Code Editor
-----------

If you are working at Odoo, many of your colleagues are using `VSCode`_ (`VSCodium`_ the open source
equivalent), `Sublime Text`_, `Atom`_ or `PyCharm`_. However you are free to
choose your preferred editor.

Don't forget to configure your linters correctly. Using a linter can help you by showing syntax and semantic
warnings or errors. Odoo source code tries to respect Python and JavaScript standards, but some of
them can be ignored.

For Python, we use PEP8 with these options ignored:

- E501: line too long
- E301: expected 1 blank line, found 0
- E302: expected 2 blank lines, found 1

For JavaScript, we use ESLint and you can find a `configuration file example here`_.

If you do not know how to set up a linter:

- `Here is an explanation of how to set up a Python linter in VSCode <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/linting>`_. There are multiple
  linter options you are free to choose from, but `Flake8 <https://pypi.org/project/flake8/>`_ is a popular choice.
- To setup ESLint in VSCode, you must download the `ESLint extension`_ and follow its instructions
  for installing ESLint. Don't forget to create and set up the `.eslintrc` file to follow the
  configuration file mentioned above.
- Another useful VSCode plugin is `Trailing Spaces`_ to quickly notice trailing spaces while
  you're working.

.. _Trailing Spaces: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=shardulm94.trailing-spaces
.. _ESLint extension: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint
.. _configuration file example here: https://github.com/odoo/odoo/wiki/Javascript-coding-guidelines#use-a-linter
.. _VSCode: https://code.visualstudio.com/
.. _VSCodium: https://vscodium.com/
.. _Sublime Text: https://www.sublimetext.com/
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=linux
.. _Atom: https://atom.io/

Administrator tools for PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------

You can manage your PostgreSQL databases using the command line as demonstrated earlier or using
a GUI application such as `pgAdmin <https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-apt/>`__ or `DBeaver <https://dbeaver.io/>`__.

To connect the GUI application to your database we recommend you connect using the Unix socket.

* Host name/address = /var/run/postgresql
* Port = 5432
* Username = $USER


Python Debugging
----------------

When facing a bug or trying to understand how the code works, simply printing things out can
go a long way, but a proper debugger can save a lot of time.

You can use a classic Python library debugger (`pdb <https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html>`__,
`pudb <https://pypi.org/project/pudb/>`__ or `ipdb <https://pypi.org/project/ipdb/>`__) or you can
use your editor's debugger. To avoid difficult configurations in the beginning, it is
easier if you use a library debugger.

In the following example we use ipdb, but the process is similar with other libraries.

- Install the library:

  .. code-block:: console

        pip3 install ipdb

- Trigger (breakpoint):

  .. code-block:: console

        import ipdb; ipdb.set_trace()

  Example:

  .. code-block:: python
     :emphasize-lines: 2

        def copy(self, default=None):
            import ipdb; ipdb.set_trace()
            self.ensure_one()
            chosen_name = default.get('name') if default else ''
            new_name = chosen_name or _('%s (copy)') % self.name
            default = dict(default or {}, name=new_name)
            return super(Partner, self).copy(default)

Here is a list of commands:

.. option:: h(elp) [command]

    Without an argument, print the list of available commands. With a command as an argument, print help
    about that command.

.. option:: pp expression

    The value of the ``expression`` is pretty-printed using the ``pprint`` module.

.. option:: w(here)

    Print a stack trace, with the most recent frame at the bottom.

.. option:: d(own)

    Move the current frame one level down in the stack trace (to a newer frame).

.. option:: u(p)

    Move the current frame one level up in the stack trace (to an older frame).

.. option:: n(ext)

    Continue the execution until the next line in the current function is reached or it returns.

.. option:: c(ontinue)

    Continue the execution and only stop when a breakpoint is encountered.

.. option:: s(tep)

    Execute the current line, stop at the first possible occasion (either in a function that is
    called or on the next line in the current function).

.. option:: q(uit)

    Quit the debugger. The program being executed is aborted.

.. tip::

    To avoid killing the worker when debugging, you can add these arguments when launching the
    server: `--limit-time-cpu=9999 --limit-time-real=9999`
    Another solution is to add them directly in the `~/.odoorc` file:

    .. code-block:: console

        $ cat ~/.odoorc
        [options]
        limit_time_cpu = 9999
        limit_time_real = 9999

Now that your server is running, it's time to start
:ref:`writing your own application <howto/rdtraining/03_newapp>`!

Commit message:

[ADD] add link to "welcome" wiki at start of tuto
Once I'd reached chapter 16 of the dev tutorial, I stumbled upon the "Welcome" page of the enterprise wiki, and I believe that particular piece of information would gain in being seen sooner, most especially the different links to tutorials about languages and technologies.

The sections about guidelines, security, commit hygiene, etc. are also of particular interest, as they would allow a new recruits to start "playing" with those principles during their functional training.

content/developer/howtos/rdtraining/02_setup.rst, after:

.. _howto/rdtraining/02_setup:

=========================================
Chapter 2: Development Environment Set-up
=========================================

There are multiple ways to install Odoo depending on the intended use case.

This document attempts to describe the installation options for an internal Odoo R&D developer. We
assume that you are installing your development environment on a standard Odoo laptop with Linux
Mint installed and up-to-date. At the time of writing, we are using a vanilla Linux Mint 20
(Ubuntu 20.04) as a starting point.


If you are using another environment, you can refer to :ref:`setup/install/source`.


Fetch the sources & configure git
=================================

Install and configure git
-------------------------

The very first step of the installation process is to install the `git version control system <https://git-scm.com/>`__
because the Odoo source code is managed on GitHub. Once installed, you can set your name and email:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install git
    $ git config --global user.name "Your full name"
    $ git config --global user.email "xyz@odoo.com"

Configure GitHub
----------------

To fetch the sources and contribute to Odoo's development you will need a GitHub account. We
recommend using your trigram (xyz) followed by '-odoo' as your username: 'xyz-odoo'. If you prefer,
you can also use your personal GitHub account.


The easiest way to authenticate with GitHub is to use an SSH connection. Using the SSH
authentication will allow you to connect to GitHub without supplying your username and
password every time.


The following instructions are based on the official `GitHub documentation <https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/connecting-to-github-with-ssh>`__.


Here is a step-by-step procedure:


- Generate a new SSH key, add it to the ssh-agent and copy the SSH key to your clipboard.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "xyz@odoo.com"
    $ ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
    $ sudo apt-get install xclip
    $ xclip -sel clip < ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub


In Github:


- In the upper-right corner of any page, click your profile photo, then click Settings

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/userbar-account-settings.png

- In the user settings sidebar, click SSH and GPG keys.

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/settings-sidebar-ssh-keys.png

- Click New SSH key or Add SSH key.

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/ssh-add-ssh-key.png

- In the "Title" field, add a descriptive label for the new key.
- Paste your key into the "Key" field.

  .. image:: 02_setup/media/ssh-key-paste.png

- Click Add SSH key.


Fetch the sources
-----------------

All the Odoo sources will be located in `$HOME/src/`

.. code-block:: console

    $ mkdir -p $HOME/src
    $ cd $HOME/src
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/odoo.git
    $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/enterprise.git

.. tip:: Cloning the repositories will take a while, enjoy a cup of coffee while you wait.

.. tip:: You may need to ask your manager for read rights to fetch the enterprise repository.

.. _howto/rdtraining/02_setup/development_repository:

Configure development repository
--------------------------------

To contribute to Odoo's development you will need to
`fork the repository <https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/>`__, create a branch containing
your code in the fork and submit a
`Pull Request <https://docs.github.com/en/github/getting-started-with-github/github-glossary#pull-request>`__
to the Odoo repository.

If you are lucky enough to work at Odoo, the forks already exist. They are called
`odoo-dev/odoo` and `odoo-dev/enterprise`.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd  $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git remote add odoo-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/odoo.git #add odoo-dev as a new remote
    $ git remote rename origin odoo #change the name of origin (the odoo repository) to odoo
    $ git remote set-url --push odoo no_push #remove the possibility to push to odoo (you can only push to odoo-dev)

    $ cd  $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git remote add enterprise-dev git@github.com:odoo-dev/enterprise.git
    $ git remote rename origin enterprise
    $ git remote set-url --push enterprise no_push


Useful git commands
-------------------

Here are some useful git commands for your day-to-day work.

* Change branch:
  When you change branches, both repositories (odoo and enterprise) must be synchronized, i.e. both
  need to be in the same branch.

  .. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git checkout 14.0

    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git checkout 14.0

* Fetch and rebase:

  .. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ git fetch --all --prune
    $ git rebase --autostash odoo/14.0

    $ cd $HOME/src/enterprise
    $ git fetch --all --prune
    $ git rebase --autostash enterprise/14.0


Install the dependencies
========================

Python
------

Odoo requires Python 3.7 or later, if your computer is up-to-date you should already be at this
version or higher.

You can check your Python version with:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python3 --version

Install pip3 and libraries
--------------------------

For libraries using native code, installation of development tools and native dependencies is
required before installing the Python dependencies of Odoo.

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install python3-pip python3-dev libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libldap2-dev libsasl2-dev libssl-dev libpq-dev libjpeg-dev


Install odoo requirements
-------------------------

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo
    $ pip3 install -r requirements.txt

.. _howto/rdtraining/02_setup/install-wkhtmltopdf:

Install wkhtmltopdf
-------------------

wkhtmltopdf is a library to render HTML into PDF. Odoo uses it to create PDF reports. wkhtmltopdf
is not installed through pip and must be installed manually in version 0.12.5 to support
headers and footers.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd /tmp/
    $ sudo wget https://github.com/wkhtmltopdf/wkhtmltopdf/releases/download/0.12.5/wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.focal_amd64.deb
    $ sudo gdebi --n wkhtmltox_0.12.5-1.focal_amd64.deb
    $ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltopdf /usr/bin
    $ sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/wkhtmltoimage /usr/bin

Right-to-left interface support
-------------------------------

In order to support right-to-left (RTL) languages, we need `rtlcss` to convert the CSS files:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt-get install nodejs npm
    $ sudo npm install -g rtlcss

Install PostgreSQL
------------------

As seen in :ref:`howto/rdtraining/01_architecture`, Odoo uses PostgreSQL as a RDBMS. In the context of a
development machine, the easiest approach is to install it locally. Then we can create a PostgreSQL user
corresponding to our current user:

.. code-block:: console

    $ sudo apt install postgresql postgresql-client
    $ sudo -u postgres createuser -s $USER


Some useful SQL commands:

.. code-block:: console

    $ createdb $DB_NAME #Create a database
    $ dropdb $DB_NAME #Drop a database

    $ psql $DB_NAME #Connect to a database
        \l #List all the available databases
        \dt #List all the tables of the $DB_NAME database
        \d $TABLE_NAME #Show the structure of the table $TABLE_NAME
        \q #Quit the psql environment (ctrl + d)

Run the server
==============

Running odoo-bin
----------------

Once all dependencies are set up, Odoo can be launched by running odoo-bin, the command-line interface of the server.

.. code-block:: console

    $ cd $HOME/src/odoo/
    $ ./odoo-bin --addons-path="addons/,../enterprise/" -d rd-demo

There are multiple :ref:`command-line arguments <reference/cmdline/server>` that you can use to
configure the server. In this training you will only need some of them.

.. option:: -d <database>

    The database that is going to be used.

.. option:: --addons-path <directories>

    A comma-separated list of directories in which modules are stored. These directories are scanned
    for modules.

.. option:: --limit-time-cpu <limit>

    Prevents the worker from using more than <limit> CPU seconds for each request.

.. option:: --limit-time-real <limit>

    Prevents the worker from taking longer than <limit> seconds to process a request.

The last two can be used to prevent the worker from being killed when debugging the source code.

.. tip:: You may face an error similar to `AttributeError: module '$MODULE_NAME' has no attribute '$ATTRIBUTE'`

         In this case you may need to re-install the module with `$ pip install --upgrade --force-reinstall $MODULE_NAME`

         If this error occurs with more than one module then you may need to re-install all the
         requirements with `$ pip3 install --upgrade --force-reinstall -r requirements.txt`

         You can also clear the python cache to solve the issue

         .. code-block:: console

            $ cd $HOME/.local/lib/python3.8/site-packages/
            $ find -name '*.pyc' -type f -delete


Log in to Odoo
--------------

Open `http://localhost:8069/` on your browser. We recommend you use:
`Firefox <https://www.mozilla.org/fr/firefox/new/>`__,
`Chrome <https://www.google.com/intl/fr/chrome/>`__
(`Chromium <https://www.chromium.org/Home>`__ the open source equivalent) or any other browser with
development tools.

To log in as the administrator user, you can use the following credentials:

* email = `admin`
* password = `admin`

The developer mode
==================

The Developer or Debug Mode gives you access to additional (advanced) tools.

This is useful for training and we assume that the user is in developer mode for the rest of the tutorials.

To activate the developer or debug mode you can follow the steps `here <https://www.odoo.com/documentation/user/general/developer_mode/activate.html>`__.

Extra tools
===========

Code Editor
-----------

If you are working at Odoo, many of your colleagues are using `VSCode`_ (`VSCodium`_ the open source
equivalent), `Sublime Text`_, `Atom`_ or `PyCharm`_. However you are free to
choose your preferred editor.

Don't forget to configure your linters correctly. Using a linter can help you by showing syntax and semantic
warnings or errors. Odoo source code tries to respect Python and JavaScript standards, but some of
them can be ignored.

For Python, we use PEP8 with these options ignored:

- E501: line too long
- E301: expected 1 blank line, found 0
- E302: expected 2 blank lines, found 1

For JavaScript, we use ESLint and you can find a `configuration file example here`_.

If you do not know how to set up a linter:

- `Here is an explanation of how to set up a Python linter in VSCode <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/linting>`_. There are multiple
  linter options you are free to choose from, but `Flake8 <https://pypi.org/project/flake8/>`_ is a popular choice.
- To setup ESLint in VSCode, you must download the `ESLint extension`_ and follow its instructions
  for installing ESLint. Don't forget to create and set up the `.eslintrc` file to follow the
  configuration file mentioned above.
- Another useful VSCode plugin is `Trailing Spaces`_ to quickly notice trailing spaces while
  you're working.

.. _Trailing Spaces: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=shardulm94.trailing-spaces
.. _ESLint extension: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=dbaeumer.vscode-eslint
.. _configuration file example here: https://github.com/odoo/odoo/wiki/Javascript-coding-guidelines#use-a-linter
.. _VSCode: https://code.visualstudio.com/
.. _VSCodium: https://vscodium.com/
.. _Sublime Text: https://www.sublimetext.com/
.. _PyCharm: https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/download/#section=linux
.. _Atom: https://atom.io/

Administrator tools for PostgreSQL
-----------------------------------

You can manage your PostgreSQL databases using the command line as demonstrated earlier or using
a GUI application such as `pgAdmin <https://www.pgadmin.org/download/pgadmin-4-apt/>`__ or `DBeaver <https://dbeaver.io/>`__.

To connect the GUI application to your database we recommend you connect using the Unix socket.

* Host name/address = /var/run/postgresql
* Port = 5432
* Username = $USER


Python Debugging
----------------

When facing a bug or trying to understand how the code works, simply printing things out can
go a long way, but a proper debugger can save a lot of time.

You can use a classic Python library debugger (`pdb <https://docs.python.org/3/library/pdb.html>`__,
`pudb <https://pypi.org/project/pudb/>`__ or `ipdb <https://pypi.org/project/ipdb/>`__) or you can
use your editor's debugger. To avoid difficult configurations in the beginning, it is
easier if you use a library debugger.

In the following example we use ipdb, but the process is similar with other libraries.

- Install the library:

  .. code-block:: console

        pip3 install ipdb

- Trigger (breakpoint):

  .. code-block:: console

        import ipdb; ipdb.set_trace()

  Example:

  .. code-block:: python
     :emphasize-lines: 2

        def copy(self, default=None):
            import ipdb; ipdb.set_trace()
            self.ensure_one()
            chosen_name = default.get('name') if default else ''
            new_name = chosen_name or _('%s (copy)') % self.name
            default = dict(default or {}, name=new_name)
            return super(Partner, self).copy(default)

Here is a list of commands:

.. option:: h(elp) [command]

    Without an argument, print the list of available commands. With a command as an argument, print help
    about that command.

.. option:: pp expression

    The value of the ``expression`` is pretty-printed using the ``pprint`` module.

.. option:: w(here)

    Print a stack trace, with the most recent frame at the bottom.

.. option:: d(own)

    Move the current frame one level down in the stack trace (to a newer frame).

.. option:: u(p)

    Move the current frame one level up in the stack trace (to an older frame).

.. option:: n(ext)

    Continue the execution until the next line in the current function is reached or it returns.

.. option:: c(ontinue)

    Continue the execution and only stop when a breakpoint is encountered.

.. option:: s(tep)

    Execute the current line, stop at the first possible occasion (either in a function that is
    called or on the next line in the current function).

.. option:: q(uit)

    Quit the debugger. The program being executed is aborted.

.. tip::

    To avoid killing the worker when debugging, you can add these arguments when launching the
    server: `--limit-time-cpu=9999 --limit-time-real=9999`
    Another solution is to add them directly in the `~/.odoorc` file:

    .. code-block:: console

        $ cat ~/.odoorc
        [options]
        limit_time_cpu = 9999
        limit_time_real = 9999

Additional reading
------------------

Feel free to read our `welcome <https://github.com/odoo/enterprise/wiki/Welcome>`__ page has extra info about
working at Odoo as well as additional `tutorials <https://github.com/odoo/enterprise/wiki/Welcome#3-technical-training>`__ that are
both language and Odoo specific. Note that the information contained therein might feel a bit overhwelming at this stage, so don't hesistate to skim, skip
and come back to it later when you need it!

Now that your server is running, it's time to start
:ref:`writing your own application <howto/rdtraining/03_newapp>`!
